We're gonna go into a different example,
I said that the other
one was the only pun.
I guess this is a second intentional pun,
which is just kind of just looking at,
just kicking the tires
on some of this stuff.
Because what is a course on JavaScript,
unless you talk about referential
equality versus value equality.
And in this post,
everything's got to be immutable world.
We mostly should grok this, but
it feels like the responsible thing to
do to at least talk about this briefly.
And we'll check out great-expectations.
Cool, and there are a bunch of
various different exercises that we'll
play around with in here, but we're
gonna look at object tests in this case.
I'm just gonna close some
things at this point.
As most of us know that we
expect these tests to fail,
because two objects that
roughly look the same but
aren't actually the same object
are not equal to each other.
If you did object.is or you did a triple
equal sign between two arrays with
the same items in it, they are not equal.
Two objects with the same keys and
values are not equal.
I should choose a better word
that is not just the same thing,
because down here, you can see that
toEqual does a shallow check, right?
So they are shallowly equal,
which all is shallow.
The quality check does is like iterate
through the array, or the first thing
in both arrays, the same thing,
second thing, so on and so forth, right?
Do they have the same number of things,
the same keys and same values, right?
Cuz otherwise, writing these
tests would be terrible, right?
And so one of the things to catch
yourself on, particularly if you have
a failing test, is did you actually
get the thing that you mostly wanted,
but it's just not the same memory address?
In RAM, cool, then you want toEqual.
And there's a lot of nuances to toEqual,
and I bring this up,
particularly when it comes to adding
tests for legacy code, right?
And there's a bunch of tricks that you
can do with this that make it way easier,
particularly in one of the code.
So I work on the objects that have to do
with are gigantic, and I don't have time
to create the entire object, particularly
in TypeScript, gets all angry.
So we'll look at some of those tricks.
But roughly speaking, if you're just
trying to make sure that the various
outputs are the same, you want toEqual
instead of to be otherwise, it won't work.
This is like if you've come from
a library that uses assert, or
the one built into node, I believe
there is assert.equal, which will fail,
cuz that does the equality check, but
then deepEqual will do what toEqual does.
That's why we're having this discussion,
right?
Every test framework is
a little bit different, Phil.
>> So is toBe, essentially triple equals
and toEqual, essentially double equals?
>> The first part of that
sentence is totally true.
>> Okay.
>> The second part is imagine iterating
over the array, right?
Even double equals two arrays that have
the same things will still not be true.
A string of 1 and a number 1 will be true,
which is the worst case scenario.
It's like if you started to go for
each on both arrays,
compare the indexes of each one.
The only one that I couldn't come up with
a clever way to do is if you are creating
two functions,
you're gonna have to find something else.
Unless someone on the chat wants to come
up with a better way to do this one but
like also not something comes
up in reality too often.
But you can see referentially,
this is the same function,
toBe will pass by stored in a variable,
but that's really a fake test.
But generally speaking,
we have toEqual, and
we'll look at one of the powers of
toEqual, which is like there are ways.
And we'll see this in a second,
I'm just kinda building expectation,
unintentional pun.
To say, I only care about two
properties of this object,
whatever that other thing is,
as long as it's some kinda string or
literally anything, I literally only
care about two or three properties.
And make sure that this result, which
might have 72 different properties, I only
care about a few of these, and you can use
toEqual to get a little bit more nuanced.
So if you find yourself accessing
a bunch of properties and
writing 42 different expectations,
there might be a better way for you, and
we'll talk about that in a second or two.
But let's jump in a little bit.
What I want you to do at this
point is take a look at exercise,
where I've got, there is a list,
I think I have it in
the notes in the repo of
every different expectation.
You can also go to the docs here and
you can see all of them.
I picked the greatest hits, right?
These are the ones that when
I did a Cmd+F in my own repo,
I had way more than the other ones.
So we'll kinda just take them for
a spin real quick and
make sure that everything works.
So what you wanna do is you'll notice
we have these annotations here.
Dot it or it.todo,
it.skip are basically the same,
it's a semantic meaning, right?
Skip is like,
I don't wanna run this test, right?
A thing that I might choose to do when
we get to some of the things that
might happen later in this workshop
is I might have a rule that says,
hey, don't ship a .skip to production, or
I guess your test suite,
don't merge it into main.
Yeah, I think older frameworks
are worse about this,
accidentally open up a PR with a .only.
Your tests pass cuz only
one of them was running.
And so .todo is more like I will
eventually write this test, right?
A lot of times, I will write a bunch of
.todos if I am feeling extra in the mood
to do test-driven development.
I will write all the different things
that could possibly happen with .todos,
I'll just knock them off one at a time.
So in this case, this test suite passes.
You know why it passes?
Cuz it doesn't fail, right?
Because these are all marked as todo, and
the lack of failure is
technically a passing.
So what I want to inspire
you to do is start turning
off the .todos and see what happens.
As you can see, some of these, you got
to actually write the implementation.
That's why that
expect.hasAssertions is here.
Cuz otherwise,
you would just take off the .todo and
the test would pass victory mode,
except you didn't do anything, right?
So you can delete this line once you
have a real expectation in there, right?
Or we can keep it cuz it's
not bothering anyone.
But yeah, you wanna start knocking these
off and just try to do the implementation
real quick, and then we'll talk
about it together in a little bit.